
Steps to run locally : 

1. Create and activate a python virtual environment
python -m venv venv
Linux : source ./venv/bin/activate
Windows : venv\Scripts\activate

2. Install dependencies:
navigate to src folder : cd src
pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Set up PostgreSQL database
I used pgAdmin4 to develop this project. Ensure PostgreSQL is running locally.

4. Configure DB credentials
credentials that I've used are as below : 
'dbname': 'weatherdata',
'user': 'postgres',
'password': '12345678',
'host': 'localhost',
'port': 5432
If you are using your custom credentials then make sure to replace the existing credentials with your own credentials
in src/db.py, src/dataIngestion.py, src/weatherStatistics.py

Note : The required tables and schemas will be auto created once the dataIngestion.py and weatherStatistics.py scripts are run.

5. run the data ingestion script by navigating to the "src" folder and running the following command:
python dataIngestion.py

6. run the script for data analysis by navigating to the src folder to define schema and populate data for weather aggregration.
python weatherStatistics.py

7. Once the above steps are completed, now you can run the FastAPI app consisting for two REST endpoints
Assuming that python packages such as fastapi, pydantic and uvicorn is already installed in the running virtual env, start the deployment server:
uvicorn main:app --reload

Once the server is up and running, to access the swagger-docs for automatic documentation of the API, visit : http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

"test_main.py" Api Endpoint tests
This test script verifies the functionality of the two main REST API endpoints: '/api/weather' and '/api/weather/stats'. 
It uses FastAPI’s 'TestClient' to simulate POST requests with and without filters such as 'station_id', 'date', and 'year'. 
The tests ensure that the endpoints return the correct HTTP status codes, expected response structure, and data types. 
To ensure that the tests perform as expected, please make sure that your local PostgreSQL database contains some sample weather and stats data before running the tests.
These tests provide a quick way to validate that the API behaves correctly under basic usage scenarios.


